### Theory
The human body is a complex system that includes electrical mechanisms across the brain, heart, muscles, nervous system, and skeletal system. The electrical systems produced by the human body, including the electrical activity occurring in the body and on the skin surface, play a significant role in the medical field. The signals that are generated from the nerves and muscle cells are called bioelectrical signals. Commonly used bioelectrical cells in the human body include electroencephalography (EEG), electromyography (EMG), electrocardiography (ECG), heart rate variability (HRV), and electrodermal activity (EDA). Biomedical engineering deals with the development of medical techniques for supporting medical sciences for various disease diagnosis and prevention. Some of the biosignals reflect spontaneous ongoing signal while some signals arise due to external stimulation. The signal properties vary depending on the processing techniques, such as in some cases, individual waveforms can be directly linked to specific clinical diagnosis while a composite of many waveforms needs to be analyzed before getting a meaningful interpretation in some cases.

&nbsp;
### Electromyography (EMG)
Electromyography is a process of recording electrical signal activity produced by muscles (myoelectric signals) using biomedical engineering devices. These signals are generally small electrical currents produced by muscle fibers before producing the muscle force. These currents occur due to the exchange of ions across the membranes of the muscle fibre, a part of the signalling process responsible for the muscle fibers to contract. The resulting electromyogram can be measured by placing conductive elements, or electrodes, on the skin surface or invasively within the muscle. Surface electromyography (surface EMG) detects the electrical activities of muscles through surface electrodes. Generally, the EMG signal measures electrical currents known as muscle action potentials generated in muscles during contraction, representing neuromuscular activity and being like the neuron's action potential. The contraction or relaxation of muscles was controlled by the nervous system, and the nature of EMG depends on the anatomy and physiology of the muscle fibers. A muscle consists of bundles of specialized cells necessary for contraction and relaxation. A muscle tissue has elasticity and extensibility and can receive stimuli and can respond to it accordingly to perform its functions. Based on the structure, contractile properties, and related control mechanisms, muscle tissues are classified into skeletal muscle, smooth muscle, and cardiac muscle. The EMG applies to the study of skeletal muscles, which are attached to the bone, and their contractions, initiated by the neurons to the muscle fibers, are responsible for movements that are voluntary in nature. 

&nbsp;
#### Motor Unit
The motor unit refers to the fundamental structure that is assessed for electromyogram. It is the smallest functional unit comprising a motor neuron and the muscle fibers innervated by that neuron for describing the neural control of muscular contraction. A motor unit consists of one alpha motor neuron, which is in the spinal cord, an axon from a nerve cell to a skeletal muscle, and all the muscle fibers that are innervated by the motor axon. All the muscle fibers act “as one” within the innervation process. The site where motor axons terminate on individual muscle cells is called the neuromuscular junction (Figure 1).  
